---
title: "Privacy Policy"
date: 2021-04-24
draft: false
headerHeadline: Privacy Policy.
headerTheme: black
hideFooter: true
hideHeaderTitle: true
---

# Privacy Policy { .text-yellow .mb-20 }

The protection of your personal data ("Data") is of particular importance to us.
Therefore, we would like to inform you comprehensively about which data we collect from you and for what purpose.

What are personal data?
All data that can be related to you personally, e.g. name, address, e-mail addresses, user behaviour.

## When do we process data and for what purpose?

### contact through you

When you contact us by e-mail, the data you provide will be stored by us in order to process your inquiry or request.
In doing so, we will at least receive your first and last name and your e-mail address.

We delete the data collected for the above-mentioned purpose after storage is no longer necessary or restrict processing if there are legal obligations to keep records.

The legal basis for this data processing is Art. 6 para. 1 sentence 1 lit. b) of the EU Basic Data Protection Regulation ("DSGVO").

### Google Analytics

We use Google Analytics for statistical evaluation of the use of our website.
Details of how we use Google Analytics and how to disable Google Analytics are described below.

The legal basis for this data processing is Art. 6 para. 1 sentence 1 letter f) DSGVO.

### No processing of server log data

It is important to us to process as little data as possible from you.
Unlike many of the other websites, we do not collect so-called server log files via your browser.
Server log files include, for example, the browser type and version, the operating system you use, the website from which you visit us (referrer URL), the date and time of access.

### No Cookies

With the exception of Google Analytics, this website does not use cookies.

### third party for video streaming

We use third-party services to display videos.
Currently these are [youtube.com](https://youtube.com) and [vimeo.com](https://vimeo.com).
These third parties may process data.
We do not collect this data and there is no exchange of data between freiheit.com and these third parties.
Please read the privacy policies of these third party providers and our notes below.

## Google Analytics

### basics

Our website uses Google Analytics from Google Inc, 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway, Mountain View, CA 94043, United States of America ("Google").
Google Analytics uses "cookies", which are text files placed on your computer, to help the website analyze how users use the site.
The information generated by the cookie about your use of this website is usually transferred to a Google server in the USA and stored there.

We have activated IP anonymisation on this website, therefore your IP address will be shortened by Google within member states of the European Union or in other states which are party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area before.
Only in exceptional cases will the full IP address be transferred to a Google server in the USA and shortened there.
On behalf of the operator of this website, Google will use this information for the purpose of evaluating your use of the website, compiling reports on website activity and providing other services relating to website activity and internet usage.
The IP address transmitted by your browser within the framework of Google Analytics is not combined with other data from Google.

### Google Analytics browser opt-out

You may refuse the use of cookies by selecting the appropriate settings on your browser, however please note that if you do this you may not be able to use the full functionality of this website.
You can also prevent the collection of data generated by the cookie and related to your use of the website (including your IP address) and the processing of this data by Google by downloading and installing the browser plugin available at the following link: [https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout?hl=de](https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout?hl=de).

### IP anonymization

This website uses Google Analytics with the extension `_anonymizeIp()`.
This allows IP addresses to be further processed in a shortened form, thus excluding the possibility of personal references.
If the data collected about you contains a personal reference, this is immediately excluded and the data is therefore deleted immediately.

### purposes of data processing

We use Google Analytics to analyze and regularly improve the use of our website.
We can use the statistics obtained to improve our offer and make it more interesting for you as a user.
For the exceptional cases in which data is transferred to the USA, Google has subjected itself to the EU-US Privacy Shield, [https://www.privacyshield.gov/EU-US-Framework](https://www.privacyshield.gov/EU-US-Framework).

### Information from Google and order processing

Third party information:

Google Dublin, Google Ireland Ltd, Gordon House, Barrow Street, Dublin 4, Ireland, Fax: +353 (1) 436 1001.

User conditions:
[http://www.google.com/analytics/terms/de.html](http://www.google.com/analytics/terms/de.html),

Overview on data protection:
[http://www.google.com/intl/de/analytics/learn/privacy.html](http://www.google.com/intl/de/analytics/learn/privacy.html),

and the privacy policy:
[http://www.google.de/intl/de/policies/privacy](http://www.google.de/intl/de/policies/privacy).

## Plugin YouTube

Videos on YouTube.com are integrated on our website.
This is a service provided by YouTube LLC, 901 Cherry Avenue, San Bruno, CA 94066, USA, represented by Google Inc, 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway, Mountain View, CA 94043, USA ("YouTube").
Normally, when you visit a website with embedded videos, your IP address is sent to YouTube and cookies are installed on your computer.

However, we have embedded our YouTube videos with the enhanced privacy mode (in this case, YouTube still contacts Google's Double Click service, but according to Google's privacy policy, personal data is not evaluated in this process).
As a result, YouTube no longer stores information about visitors unless they are watching the video.
When you click on the video, your IP address is sent to YouTube and YouTube learns that you have watched the video.
If you are logged in to YouTube, this information is also associated with your account (you can prevent this by logging out of YouTube before viewing the video).

We have no knowledge of and no influence on the processing of your data by YouTube.
For more information, please refer to the YouTube privacy policy at [https://www.google.de/intl/de/policies/privacy](https://www.google.de/intl/de/policies/privacy).

You can prevent YouTube from loading by changing your browser settings (deactivating JavaScript and iFrames).
Please refer to the instructions of your browser manufacturer for details of how this works.
For some browsers there are also add-ons that make it easier for you to make these settings, e.g. for Mozilla Firefox the script blocker "NoScript" [noscript.net](http://noscript.net) or the ad blocker "Adblock Plus" [adblockplus.org](https://adblockplus.org/de) in combination with the "EasyPrivacy" list [easylist.to](https://easylist.to).

## plugin Vimeo

Videos on Viemeo.com are included on our website.
This is a service of Vimeo, Inc. 555 West 18th Street, New York, New York 10011, USA ("Vimeo").
When you view videos through Vimeo, a connection is established to the Vimeo servers in the USA. This transfers certain information to Vimeo.
It is also possible that Vimeo may store cookies on your end device.
In addition, Vimeo allows you to use certain other functions, such as rating or sharing videos.
This may require you to log in to Vimeo or certain third parties (such as facebook or twitter) with your user account so that they can associate the information you submit with your account.

These features are provided exclusively by Vimeo and the third parties, and you should carefully review their privacy policies before using these features.

We are not aware of the content of the information collected by Vimeo or third parties and have no control over its use.
Through the integration, Vimeo may also receive information that your browser has called up the appropriate page on this website, even if you do not have a Vimeo account or are not currently logged in to Vimeo.

For more information about Vimeo's collection and use of your information and your rights, please refer to the Vimeo Privacy Policy at [https://vimeo.com/privacy](https://vimeo.com/privacy).

You can prevent Vimeo from loading by changing your browser settings (disabling JavaScript and iFrames).
Please refer to the instructions provided by your browser manufacturer for details of how this works.
For some browsers there are also add-ons that make it easier for you to make these settings, e.g. for Mozilla Firefox the script blocker "NoScript" [noscript.net](http://noscript.net) or the ad blocker "Adblock Plus" [adblockplus.org](https://adblockplus.org/de) in combination with the "EasyPrivacy" list [easylist.to](https://easylist.to).

## Cookie settings

<div id="CookieDeclarationContainer">
{{< cookie-declaration >}}
</div>

## Third party {#Drittlandtransfer}

Data will only be transferred to third parties if you have given your explicit consent in advance or if we are contractually or legally entitled or obliged to do so, or if we are required to do so by court or official authorities.

## Third country transfer

The servers of some of the service providers we use are located in the USA and other countries outside the European Union or the European Economic Area ("Third Country").

Insofar as the data protection law applicable in the respective third country does not provide an adequate level of data protection in accordance with the DSGVO, we have ensured an adequate level of protection in accordance with the DSGVO by means of contractual regulations or other recognised instruments.
Insofar as data is transferred to third countries, this is done on the basis of the EU Commission's Adequacy Decision on the EU-US Privacy Shield or on the basis of the EU standard contractual clauses.

## Rights of data subjects {#Betroffenenrechte}

You are entitled to a number of legal rights to which we would like to draw your attention in the following.

### Information and data transferability

You have the right at any time to obtain information on the data processed by us concerning you.
You also have the right to have your data stored by us made available to you in a structured, common and machine-readable format.

### correction, restriction, deletion

Furthermore, you can demand that we correct, restrict (block) or delete your data if the data has been incorrectly processed by us, if there is a reason for restricting further data processing or if data processing has become illegal for various reasons or if the storage of your personal data is not permitted for other legal reasons.
We would like to point out that your right to deletion may be restricted by legal retention periods.

### right of objection

Insofar as we base the processing of your data on the weighing of interests (Art. 6 para. 1 sentence 1 lit. f) DSGVO), you may object to the processing.
This is the case if the processing is in particular not necessary for the fulfilment of a contract with you, which we will describe in the following description of the functions.
In the event of such an objection, we request that you explain the reasons why we should not process your data as we have done.
In the event of your justified objection, we will examine the facts of the case and will either stop or adapt the data processing or show you our compelling reasons worthy of protection on the basis of which we will continue the processing.

### Rights of appeal

You are free to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority if you believe that our processing of your data violates a data protection law.
The contact details of the supervisory authority responsible for us are:

The Hamburg Commissioner for Data Protection and Information Security
Kurt-Schumacher-Allee 4
20097 Hamburg (Germany)

Phone: +49 (0) 40 / 428 54 4040
Fax: +49 (0) 40 / 4279 11 811
e-mail: <a href="mailto:mailbox@datenschutz.hamburg.de">mailbox@datenschutz.hamburg.de</a>

## Data security {#Datensicherheit}

We use technical and organizational security measures to protect your data, especially against accidental or intentional manipulation, loss, destruction or against attack by unauthorized persons.
These security measures are adapted to the current state of technology.

## Data Protection Officer {#Datenschutzbeauftragter}

If you have any questions about our data protection declaration or about data protection at our company, please contact our data protection officer:

Niklas Hanitsch
c/o secjur GmbH
Steinhöft 9
20459 Hamburg
Germany

Phone: <a href="tel:004940228599520">+49 40 228 599 520</a>
E-mail: <a href="mailto:dsb@secjur.com">dsb@secjur.com</a>

## Responsible {#Verantwortlich}

Responsible according to Art. 4 No. 7 DSGVO is

freiheit.com technologies gmbh
Budapester Strasse 45
20359 Hamburg
Germany

Phone: <a href="tel:0049408905840">+49 40 890584 0</a>
E-mail: <a href="mailto:kontakt@freiheit.com">kontakt@freiheit.com</a>
website: [https://www.freiheit.com](https://www.freiheit.com)

## Supplementary notes and regulations for individual services {#lever}

### LEVER

We use the Lever Hire applicant tracking system from Lever, Inc, 1125 Mission Street, San Francisco, CA 94103, United States of America ("Lever") for our recruiting process.

Your data will only be processed by us if you apply for a job with us through Lever and have previously registered with Lever.
Without your registration and application through Lever, we will not store any applicant data in Lever.

Your applicant data includes first and last name, contact details and the application documents (e.g. cover letter, curriculum vitae, references, etc.).

Lever will act as our processor in accordance with Art. 28 GDPR. We have concluded a corresponding order processing agreement with Lever as well as the corresponding EU standard contract clauses.
You can find further information on Lever regarding the data protection law:

[Lever Privacy Policy](https://www.lever.co/privacy-notice/)

All data that you send us about your application will be processed and stored at Lever to process your application and carry out the application procedure. Regular applicant data from pro-active applications are automatically deleted after 1 year if an application is rejected, in case you give us your consent.

If you would like us to delete your data before the end of this period or if you would like information about your data stored at freiheit.com, please contact us by e-mail: [jobs@freiheit.com](mailto:jobs@freiheit.com)

We only use this information for the freiheit.com recruitment process and only people on our recruitment team will have access to this information.
We do not use this information for any other purpose.
For statistical purposes of the recruiting team we store anonymous data that has no relation to actual persons.

### HiBob

We use the HR tool from HiBob, 275 7th Ave,
New York, NY 10001, United States of America ("HiBob") for our HR management.

Our Applicant Tracking System (Lever) is connected to our HR tool (HiBob) to automatically transfer personal data of applicants who have entered into a signed contract with us from Lever to Hibob.

The transferred applicant data includes first and last name, contact details, the work location, given links to the applicants social network profiles (e.g. Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter) and application documents (e.g. cover letter, curriculum vitae, references, etc.).

HiBob will act as our processor in accordance with Art. 28 GDPR. We have concluded a corresponding order processing agreement with HiBob as well as the corresponding EU standard contract clauses.
You can find further information on HiBob regarding the data protection law:

[HiBob Privacy Policy]( https://www.hibob.com/privacy/privacy-policy/)

From the time of signing a work contract with freiheit.com, your personal data will be stored in Hi Bob and Lever.

The legal basis for this data processing is Art. 6 para. 1 sentence 1 lit. b) GDPR.

In addition, we refer to the above information on

[Third party]({{< ref "#Dritte" >}})
[Third country transfer]({{< ref "#Drittlandtransfer" >}})
[Rights of data subjects]({{< ref "#Betroffenenrechte" >}})
[Data security]({{< ref "#Datensicherheit" >}})
[Data Protection Officer]({{< ref "#Datenschutzbeauftragter" >}})
[Responsible]({{< ref "#Verantwortlich" >}})

With regard to the processing of your data on the Lever website on your own responsibility, we refer you to [data protection information](https://www.lever.co/privacy-notice/).
